Blog on Terraform and Octopus (#353)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2020-10/terraform-and-octopus-deploy-in-azure/index.md

---

> title: Terraform and Octopus Deploy for Azure

Reviewer: I'd suggest trying to make this title clearer so people understand what is in the post. Something like: 

Using Terraform with Octopus Deploy to create Azure resources

Reviewer: Another one: Infrastructure as Code in Azure with Terraform and Octopus Deploy

Author: Perfect! Updated that, thank you.

description:  In this blog post, you take a look at combining the power of Infrastructure-as-code using Terraform and Octopus Deploy to create resources and services in Azure
author: michael.levan@octopus.com
visibility: private
published: 2199-10-10 
metaImage: 
bannerImage: 
tags:
 - Automation
 - DevOps
 -Azure
---

> When you think of continuous deployment and continuous delivery, the first thing that typically comes to mind is application code. Ya know, that code that gets deployed to some cloud service or container to run an application. 

Reviewer: This is a nice intro. I think you hit on some very clear points. 

* CI/CD is commonly associated with shipping code. 
* Octopus supports developers as well as operations teams and infrastructure developers. Runbooks was developed with operations tasks specifically. 
* What Octopus offers to an infrastructure developer. 

That said, I think your writing here is too informal. Specifically, the `Ya know` blurb but I would suggest doing. quick revision over it to try to make it a bit less conversational. This isn't bad per se but it's inconsistent with the rest of the writing on our blog. :) 

P.S. I love the "In this post" sentence. Super clear about what to expect in the article. :)

Author: Yep! That definitely makes sense. I've updated the intro for a more "professional" feel over a conversational aspect.

When it comes to Octopus Deploy, sure, we do focus on those types of deployments. We also really focus on not only the software developers, but the infrastructure developers. The idea of wanting to help both sides of the fence for automated deployments is why [Runbooks](https://octopus.com/docs/runbooks) exist.

As an infrastructure developer, you need to write code to automate the process of configuring cloud and on-prem infrastructure, but you also need a way to automatically deploy it.

In this blog post, you'll learn about how to use Terraform and Octopus Deploy together to deploy services into Azure.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: I love how you add this!

Author: Woohoo! :) Thank you.

To follow along with this blog post, you should have the following:

> - An Octopus Deploy server, either on-prem or in the cloud

Reviewer: I'd add links to the downloads page and Octopus cloud sign-up page. Just makes it easy for someone reading it to sign-up if needed. :)

Author: Makes sense! Added them in.

- An Azure subscription. If you don't already have one, you can sign up for a 30-day free trial [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/).
- An Azure Service Principal (app registration) that has access to create resource in the Azure subscription you're using.

> - Knowledge of [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/intro/index.html).

Reviewer: It's probably better to be a bit clearer here. What level of knowledge? i.e. Basic understanding of Terraform and it's major components etc.

Author: Done

> ## Octopus and Terraform

Reviewer: I'd probably rename this section to be "Why use Octopus and Terraform together" or something similar. It's great! :)

Author: Makes sense! Thank you.

> Terraform, an open-source [Infrastructure-as-Code](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/learn/what-is-infrastructure-as-code) platform created by [Hashicorp](https://www.hashicorp.com/), is very much supported by default in Octopus Deploy. You can deploy Terraform resources to:

Reviewer: I'd probably split this into two sentences/ideas. Terraform is blah. Octopus Deploy includes support for Terraform to do blah.

Author: Done

- In Azure
- In AWS
- On-prem (hardware and virtualized environments)

> One of the great parts about using Terraform in a continuous delivery and deployment tool is that you only have to focus on writing the code, not manually deploying it. Combining Octopus and Terraform allows you to automate the entire lifecycle.

Reviewer: This is a great point. I would suggest changing `great parts` to `major benefits` as it's a bit clearly about why this is an advantage. :)

Author: Sounds much better! Thank you.

> ## The Code

Reviewer: I always pay attention to the headlines as they basically tell the story of the blog post. People often don't read posts but scan it first to see if it suits and then dig in if it looks good. 

Intro blurb.

## Prerequisites
## Octopus and Terraform
## The Code
### The Provider

## The Resource Creation
## Authentication From Octopus Deploy to Azure
## Setting up a New Project
### Creating Variables
## Configuring the Runbook
## Creating a Runbook
## Adding Steps
### Configuring the Terraform Step
## Running the Code
## Conclusion

A few sections aren’t super clear to me. i.e. The Code, The Provider, The Resource Collection etc. I would suggest revising them to be clearer so it can be scanned and understood at a glance. :)

Author: Absolutely. That definitely makes sense to me. I've updated them. Can you confirm they look better?

1. Under the Runbook, go to Process and click **ADD STEP.**
2. Click on the Terraform category.

![](images/5.png)

  3. Choose the **Apply a Terraform template** step.

![](images/6.png)

### Configuring the Terraform Step

Depending on the environment you're running in, these steps could be different. For example, you could use a different Worker Pool than the standard default. Because of that, this blog post will go over the key steps to add in for Terraform specifically.

1. Under **Managed Accounts**, choose **Azure Account** and add in the Azure account you created in the previous section **Authentication to Octopus Deploy from Azure**.
2. Under **Template**, choose **Template Source** and use the Source code option. Then, paste in the following code.

```
provider "azurerm" {
  subscription_id = "#{subscriptionID}"
  client_id       = "#{clientID}"
  client_secret   = "#{clientSecret}"
  tenant_id       = "#{tenantID}"
  
  features		  = {}
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "myterraformgroup" {
  name     = "#{resourceGroupName}"
  location = "#{location}"
}
```

As you can see, it utilizes the variables you created in the previous section **Setting up Variables**.

> ## Running the Code

Reviewer: Some suggestions for clarity. 

* Running the Runbook
* Executing the runbook
* Run the runbook to provision your resources

Author: Went with "Executing the Runbook" :). Thanks Rob

---
title: Infrastructure as Code in Azure with Terraform and Octopus Deploy

> description:  In this blog post, you take a look at combining the power of Infrastructure-as-code using Terraform and Octopus Deploy to create resources and services in Azure

Reviewer 2: Slight change of perspective, as you're guiding the reader, I made it we :)
```suggestion
description:  In this blog post, we take a look at combining the power of Infrastructure-as-code using Terraform and Octopus Deploy to create resources and services in Azure
```

Author: Thanks Lee! :)

author: michael.levan@octopus.com
visibility: private
published: 2199-10-10 
metaImage: 
bannerImage: 
tags:
 - Automation
 - DevOps
 - Azure
---

> When you think of continuous deployment and continuous delivery, the first thing that typically comes to mind is application code. For example, perhaps you have a web API that you want to deploy to a serverless platform.
> 
> When it comes to Octopus Deploy, we focus on software deployments, but there's also the infrastructure side. It's not only about the software developers, but the infrastructure developers. The idea of wanting to help both sides of the fence for automated deployments is why [Runbooks](https://octopus.com/docs/runbooks) exist.
> 
> As an infrastructure developer, you need to write code to automate the process of configuring cloud and on-prem infrastructure, but you also need a way to automatically deploy it.
> 
> In this blog post, you'll learn about how to use Terraform and Octopus Deploy together to deploy services into Azure.

Reviewer 2: I think this could be a bit more direct. Generally, I try to avoid rhetorical questions or telling the reader what they probably think about. Ideally, we want to tell the reader exactly what the post is about as soon as we can.
For instance:
```suggestion
Infrastructure developers write code to automate the process of configuring cloud and on-premises infrastructure, in this post, I should your how to use Terraform and Octopus Deploy to deploy services to Azure.
```

## Prerequisites

> To follow along with this blog post, you should have the following:

Reviewer 2: Need is a bit more assertive and definite than "should have", everybody assumes they're the exception if you leave room for doubt :)
```suggestion
To follow along with this blog post, you need the following:
```

> - An Octopus Deploy server, either [on-prem](https://octopus.com/start/server) or in the [cloud](https://octopus.com/start/cloud)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An Octopus Deploy server, either [on-premises](https://octopus.com/start/server) or a [cloud instance](https://octopus.com/start/cloud)
```

> - An Azure subscription. If you don't already have one, you can sign up for a 30-day free trial [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/).

Reviewer 2: Try to use the subject of the link as the link text:
```suggestion
- An Azure subscription. If you don't already have one, you can sign up for a [30-day free trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/).
```

> - An Azure Service Principal (app registration) that has access to create resource in the Azure subscription you're using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An Azure Service Principal (app registration) that has access to create resources in your Azure subscription.
```

- Knowledge of [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/intro/index.html) at a beginner-to-intermediate level.

## Why Use Octopus and Terraform Together

> Terraform, an open-source [Infrastructure-as-Code](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/learn/what-is-infrastructure-as-code) platform created by [Hashicorp](https://www.hashicorp.com/), is very much supported by default in Octopus Deploy. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform is an open-source [Infrastructure-as-Code](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/learn/what-is-infrastructure-as-code) platform created by [Hashicorp](https://www.hashicorp.com/) that is supported by default in Octopus Deploy. 
```

You can deploy Terraform resources to:

> - In Azure

Reviewer 2: I always try to treat each bullet point as the ending to the sentence that is started before the colon:
```suggestion
- Azure
```

> - In AWS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- AWS
```

> - On-prem (hardware and virtualized environments)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On-premises (hardware and virtualized environments)
```

> One of the major benefits about using Terraform in a continuous delivery and deployment tool is that you only have to focus on writing the code, not manually deploying it. Combining Octopus and Terraform allows you to automate the entire lifecycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the major benefits of using Terraform in a continuous delivery and deployment tool is that you can focus on writing the code, not manually deploying it. Combining Octopus and Terraform allows you to automate the entire lifecycle.
```

## The Terraform Code

> To create a resource or service in Azure, you need to write the HCL code. In this section, you'll take a look at the HCL code to create a Resource Group in Azure using Terraform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a resource or service in Azure, you need to write the HCL code. In this section, I should you the HCL code to create a Resource Group in Azure using Terraform.
```

### The Azure Terraform Provider

> As with any time you interact with a Terraform provider, you need to specify some inputs and authentication into the code block. To provider that is used to interact with Azure is the `azurerm` provider, which you can find out more about [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/index.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever you interact with a Terraform provider, you need to specify some inputs and authentication in the code block. The provider that is used to interact with Azure is the [`azurerm` provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/index.html).
```

There are four ways to authenticate to the `azurerm` Terraform provider:

- [Authenticating to Azure using the Azure CLI](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/guides/azure_cli.html)
- [Authenticating to Azure using Managed Service Identity](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/guides/managed_service_identity.html)
- [Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and a Client Certificate](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/guides/service_principal_client_certificate.html)
- [Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and a Client Secret](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/guides/service_principal_client_secret.html)

> For the purposes of this blog post, you'll be using an Azure Service Principal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the purposes of this blog post, we're using an Azure Service Principal.
```

> The provider will need the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The provider needs the following information:
```

> - Azure subscription ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Azure Subscription ID
```

- Client ID
- Client Secret
- Tenant ID

> There is also a `features` parameter that is needed, but it can be left blank.

Reviewer 2: Slight change here, saying it's needed AND can be left blank might be confusing.
```suggestion
There is also a `features` parameter, but it can be left blank.
```

> The provider config block should look like the below code.

Reviewer 2: Try to avoid should as mentioned above :)
```suggestion
The provider config block looks like the below code:
```

```
provider "azurerm" {
  subscription_id = "#{subscriptionID}"
  client_id       = "#{clientID}"
  client_secret   = "#{clientSecret}"
  tenant_id       = "#{tenantID}"
  
  features		  = {}
}
```

> Notice of the subscription ID, client ID, client secret, and tenant ID have variables associated for the values. You'll go over setting up the variables in an upcoming section. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice the subscription ID, client ID, client secret, and tenant ID all use variables for the values. We'll configure these variables later. 
```

## Creating the Azure Resource

> The `resource` create operation will call upon the `azurerm_resource_group` resource type. The resource type contains two parameters needed in the config block:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resource create operation will call upon the `azurerm_resource_group` resource type. The resource type contains two parameters in the config block:
```

> - name - The name of the resource group you're creating
> - location - The location where the resource group will reside (`eastus`, for example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **name**: The name of the resource group you're creating.
- **location**: The location where the resource group will reside,  for example, `eastus`.
```

```
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "resourceGroup" {
  name     = "#{resourceGroupName}"
  location = "#{location}"
}
```

> Once you have the provider and resource code, it should look like the below code snippet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have the provider and resource code, it will look like the following code snippet:
```

```
provider "azurerm" {
  subscription_id = "#{subscriptionID}"
  client_id       = "#{clientID}"
  client_secret   = "#{clientSecret}"
  tenant_id       = "#{tenantID}"
  
  features		  = {}
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "myterraformgroup" {
  name     = "#{resourceGroupName}"
  location = "#{location}"
}
```

## Authentication From Octopus Deploy to Azure

> Now that the code is written that will be used to create a new Resource Group in Azure, you need a way to authenticate from Octopus Deploy to Azure. Luckily, Octopus Deploy has a way to create accounts for authentication to cloud and on-prem environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, you need a way to authenticate from Octopus Deploy to Azure. Octopus Deploy has a way to create accounts for authentication to cloud and on-premises environments.
```

> To create an Azure account..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create an Azure account
```

> Log into the Octopus Deploy portal and go to **Infrastructure** —> **Accounts**
> 
> ![](images/1.png)
> 
> Click the green **ADD ACCOUNT** button and choose the **Azure Subscription** option.
> 
> ![](images/2.png)
> 
> Add in all associated information for the Azure Service Principal you have that has permission to create resources in the Azure portal. To confirm that the Azure Service Principal works, click the **SAVE AND TEST** button.
> 
> ![](images/3.png)

Reviewer 2: Use a numbered list for procedures to help guide the reader. I've removed the screenshots as they didn't convey anything that's not included in the text. Include the full screen for screenshots, instead of a small section.
```suggestion
1. Log into the Octopus Web Portal and navigate to **{{Infrastructure**, **Accounts**}}**.
1. Click the green **ADD ACCOUNT** button and choose **Azure Subscription**.
1. Add all associated information for the Azure Service Principal you're using to create resources in the Azure portal. 
1. To confirm that the Azure Service Principal works, click **SAVE AND TEST**.
```

> ## Setting up a New Project in Octopus Deploy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a New Project in Octopus Deploy
```

Once the authentication is complete from Octopus Deploy to Azure, you can start thinking about how and where you want the Terraform runbook to exist. To ensure that the runbook is in it's own project, you can create the project with the Octopus Deploy UI.

> ### Creating a Project in Octopus Deploy

Reviewer 2: Using creating instead of create, sounds like a description of the required action instead of a directive to perform the action. It's the difference between running for the bus and run for the bus. I hope that helps :)
```suggestion
### Create a project in Octopus Deploy
```

1. Log into the Azure portal and go to **Projects**.

> 2. Choose which project group you'd like to store the Project in and click the green **ADD PROJECT** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Choose which project group you'd like to store the project in and click **ADD PROJECT**.
```

3. Create a new project and name it **TerraformAzure**.

Once the project is created, it's time to create the runbook.

> ### Creating Octopus Deploy Variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create Octopus Deploy Variables
```

> Under the variables section of the project, you'll want to add in Project Variables. Because these values can differ based on the environment you're in, below is a screenshot of a sample. The `Name` of the variables should match the screenshot below because you will use them in the code later, but the values will be different for your environment.

Reviewer 2: Here, I think you should list the variable names and sample values instead of relying on a screenshot to make it easier for readers to copy and paste.

Author: Perfect, thanks Lee. I added a code snippet and took out the screenshot.

![](images/4.png)

> ## Configuring the Runbook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure the Runbook
```

> Since you're deploying a service in Azure and not code for an application, the most efficient action is to use a Runbook. The Runbook will give you the ability to use the Terraform step template and create the Resource Group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a runbook is the most efficient way to deploy a service in Azure. The runbook gives you the ability to use the Terraform step template and create the Resource Group.
```

> ## Creating a Runbook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a Runbook
```

> 1. Under the Project, go to **Operations** —> **Runbooks**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Project** and select **{{Operations, Runbooks}}**.
```

> 2. Click the green **ADD RUNBOOK** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **ADD RUNBOOK**.
```

> 3. Create a Runbook and name it **ResourceGroup**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a runbook and name it **ResourceGroup**.
```

> ## Adding Steps to the Runbook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add steps to the runbook
```

> 1. Under the Runbook, go to Process and click **ADD STEP.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the runbook, select **Process**, and click **ADD STEP.**
```

2. Click on the Terraform category.

> ![](images/5.png)

Reviewer 2: This image doesn't really convey anything not already in the text. When you include images, use straight edges :)
```suggestion
```

Author: Sounds good! I took out the image :)

  3. Choose the **Apply a Terraform template** step.

![](images/6.png)

> ### Configuring the Terraform Step

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure the Terraform Step
```

> Depending on the environment you're running in, these steps could be different. For example, you could use a different Worker Pool than the standard default. Because of that, this blog post will go over the key steps to add in for Terraform specifically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the environment you're running in, these steps could be different. For example, you could use a different Worker Pool than the default. These are key steps to include for Terraform:
```

> 1. Under **Managed Accounts**, choose **Azure Account** and add in the Azure account you created in the previous section **Authentication to Octopus Deploy from Azure**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under **Managed Accounts**, choose **Azure Account** and add the Azure account you created in the previous section, **Authentication to Octopus Deploy from Azure**.
```

> 2. Under **Template**, choose **Template Source** and use the Source code option. Then, paste in the following code.

Reviewer 2: Use bold for UI labels :)
```suggestion
2. Under **Template**, choose **Template Source** and use the **Source code** option. Then, paste in the following code:
```

```
provider "azurerm" {
  subscription_id = "#{subscriptionID}"
  client_id       = "#{clientID}"
  client_secret   = "#{clientSecret}"
  tenant_id       = "#{tenantID}"
  
  features		  = {}
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "myterraformgroup" {
  name     = "#{resourceGroupName}"
  location = "#{location}"
}
```

> As you can see, it utilizes the variables you created in the previous section **Setting up Variables**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, it uses the variables you created in the **Setting up Variables** section.
```

> ## Running the Terraform Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run the Terraform code
```

The configuration of the project, authentication, steps, and code is all complete. Now, it's time to see the code in action! 

> 1. Under **Runbooks**, you'll see the **ResourceGroup** Runbook. Click the **RUN** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under **Runbooks**, you'll see the **ResourceGroup** runbook. Click **RUN**.
```

> 2. Select the environment that you'd like to run the Runbook under and click the green **RUN** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select the environment that you'd like to run the runbook under and click **RUN**.
```

> ![](images/7.png)

Reviewer 2: This screenshot feels like it needs more context so the reader understands what they're looking at :)

> Congrats! You have successfully created a Resource Group in Azure using Octopus Deploy and Terraform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have successfully created a Resource Group in Azure using Octopus Deploy and Terraform.
```
